All right.
So in this lesson will introduce a brand new view idea, which is lifecycle hooks.
So a component goes through a life cycle.
You can almost think of a human being going through their life.
And what the life cycle represents is a series of events that a component goes through throughout its
existence.
Much like human beings may have certain significant events in our life, like, for example, are going
to school or maybe getting married or our first child.
Those are kind of significant events throughout our life in the realm of view components.
They have a similar idea where there are moments during the components existence that it can recognize
as happening.
And what we can do is we can hook into those events and execute some extra code in that given moment
in time in that event.
Right.
So the complete collection of events is called the Life Cycle.
And a moment where we can sort of interject ourselves and write some code is called a life cycle hook.
So here's a diagram from the official view website.
And I just want to show you here.
It's it's not important to understand all of these things all at once.
But if you'll notice, these red boxes here.
These all represent the life cycle hooks.
So these are, again, different moments during the components existence.
And what you can do here is you can follow this flow chart to see at which moment these life cycle hooks
automatically run.
So you can see here at the very beginning, we're creating a view component and we're mounting it.
And let's say this is just one component.
We can see here the very first thing you does is it initializes the component, kind of gets its base
foundation up and running and then it encounters the before create hook.
So before the component gets all of its reactive features, view will run this method.
Right?
And we can interject ourselves or step into this method and say, when you're at this moment in your
life component, please run this extra logic for us.
Right?
And we might do something like make an API request at this moment, right?
When we want to do something special outside the component.
We may say, Hey, while you're busy building yourself up, get this extra data or read this file from
disk.
Those are just examples to represent why we might want to use a feature like this.
Right?
Similarly, we have a lifecycle hook called created that is run automatically by view whenever that
component gets its initial reactivity functions right.
So like data and computed and all that functionality after it gets all of that, well then view runs
the created lifecycle hook.
Similarly, there is a hook before it is mounted into the browser, before Vue actually adds the component
into your page and its HTML.
This hook runs right then once it's actually in the browser, there's a mounted function or a mounted
lifecycle hook that runs right.
There's also things like before update and update, which are lifecycle hooks that may run multiple
times during a component's existence.
So whenever the component updates, for example, let's say it's data property changes view says, I'm
going to run before update, then I'm going to actually make the changes and then I'm going to run the
updated hook.
Right?
And again, we can inject ourselves or kind of step in at any point during these hook processes and
do some additional logic or do some additional code.
In addition, when the component is on mounted, which means when it's removed from our DOM and that
may happen, for example, later on we'll learn how we can navigate from page to page.
So when you navigate from one page to another, view may tear down or bring down existing components
in order to render other ones on the screen.
So those original components are on mounted or brought down.
You can almost think of on mounting a TV from the wall.
Right.
You're taking it down.
Well, before that happens, you have similar before on mount lifecycle hooks and on mounted lifecycle
hook when everything is done.
So again, these are events through a view components life that we can step into.
So let me show you a couple of these and we'll see how we can sort of configure them to run whatever
logic we want.
So I'm going to head back to this code and I'm going to make sure we're in a hero component.
And the way we create these lifecycle hooks is we simply write their names as methods in our view configuration
object.
So for example, we saw that we had two lifecycle hooks called that before create and created.
So I'm just going to write before create.
That's the official name we must use.
And so this is going to be a method.
And here we can specify any additional logic that we want this component to do or execute before it's
created.
So we just put vanilla JavaScript code in here.
So for now, I'm just going to do the simplest thing I can, which is console.log something to the browser
council.
I'm going to say component is about to be created.
All right, then.
Another life cycle hook we have access to is called created.
That's when the component is created and it gets all of its original reactive functionality.
So for example, we can write our created lifecycle hook here.
And this of course will run after the before creates book.
At some point later in the components life and so here I can do another console.log like component has
been created and similarly the next thing that happens is the component waits to be mounted or placed
within the browser's dom within the HTML.
So there's two other lifecycle hooks called before mount and here we can just console.log.
Something similar component is about to be mounted.
And as one more example, we can add one more life cycle hook here, and I'll do the mounted life cycle
hook once again.
They're all just going to be basic methods.
And in the body of those methods, we define what the components should do at this juncture, at this
point, at this event.
So let's console.log component has been mounted.
In the dorm.
All right.
So the order that we wrote our life cycle hooks in this file is the order that you is actually going
to run through them.
And this is not all of them.
Of course, we saw that there's a lot more, but this is just a good introduction to four of them.
So if I go to my browser right now.
And go back to my view app.
Let me bring up this and our console and let me refresh just so we have a clean slate.
We can see right here that all of those console logs appear in the order that we placed them in the
respective lifecycle hooks.
So component is about to be created.
That was in our very first one, which was the before create hook.
Then component has been created, component is about to be mounted and component has been mounted in
the DOM.
So obviously right now we did some very silly simple things.
We just output text to the console.
But again, the advantage of this is that we can interject ourselves and perform some additional logic.
So for example, if we think about our Google Careers website will notice that the headline has that
verb that changes every couple of seconds, right?
Like design, then build, then code, etc..
Well, something has to kick off the logic for changing that piece of text every couple of seconds.
Right.
Because otherwise we're going to be dependent on user interaction in order to change things like data.
But we need something that is going to automatically kick off at some point during the components existence.
So a lifecycle hook is a perfect place to kick off that logic because we know that Vue will automatically
run it when it's starting up the component.
We don't need to wait for the user to interact.
We can just tell Vue, for example, whenever this component is starting up, please go ahead and start
running this function that's going to change the text every 5 seconds.
So that's going to be the strategy that we take in building out that thing, and we're going to continue
working on this in the very next lesson.